Welcome back.
Why do we just learn all of this.
Well because now we know a critical part in being a javascript programmer.
We want to write code in a way that helps the compiler make optimizations.
We don't want to work against it and make things slow throughout the rest of the course.
We're going to learn different ways to write efficient code.
But I want to give you some basic things to watch out for when working with JavaScript engine.
Now keep in mind that most of these things I'm going to show you will seem like things you don't really
use or see that much anymore.
And that's because most developers don't use them since they can be bad for optimizations but it never
hurts to know what they are.
It doesn't mean that you should never use them but that they use cases for them are very rare.
So here's the list.
In order to help the JavaScript engine we want to be really really careful with these on the left functions
that call literally the Val function which comes with JavaScript can be very problematic arguments which
we're going to talk about when we get into functions of this course.
Something that comes with every function.
There are many ways that we can use this keyword by javascript but there are many ways that makes compilers
on optimizing.
So we have to be really careful with using arguments and I'll show you later on how we can use parameter
d structuring to avoid using arguments for and loop.
For example when looping over objects can also be problematic sometimes.
So I like to use object keys and iterate over the object keys that way the With statement which once
again you don't see very often in the wild anymore is another problematic one.
And also the delete key word in JavaScript can be problematic.
Now I'll leave resources for you to read up on them if you really really want to get into the weeds.
But there's two main things I want to talk about here that are the main reasons that these things in
JavaScript can make our code less optimized.
Let's have a look.
The first thing I want to talk about is something called inline caching and inline caching we can demonstrate
this way.
Let's say we have a function and this function will say find user that takes in the user parameter and
this function will just return a template string and say found let's a user dot first name then
and here we can just create an object call it user data that will have the first name say Johnson and
last name say junior.
Now all we do here is say find user and give it the user data object now inline caching does something
really interesting do to inline caching done by the compiler code that executes the same method repeatedly.
That is let's say the find user method or function was being called multiple times.
Well the compiler can optimize this so that whenever it's looking for the user data which has first
name and last name it can use something called inline caching where instead of looking up this object
every time finding the key that is first name and last name and then the values it will cache or inline
cache so that find user just becomes this piece of text.
So if we call find user over and over and over we would just replace that with found Johnson Junior
because at the end of the day that's all that the function is doing.
The other one that is really important for optimizing compiler code is something called Hidden classes
and a lot of the gotchas that I showed you previously that is this one over here such as the delete
key word really affects this hitting classes when it comes to compilers.
Let's have a look.
If I had a function let's call it animal that receives X and Y parameters and we'll use this keyword
for now we're going to learn more about that soon in this course.
Don't worry.
But let's say we just have this animal with X and Y properties.
And now we create a new object let's say cost object one is going to be a new animal that takes in 1
and 2 as the properties.
Doesn't really mean much but there's our first object and then our second object will do the same thing
but this time with different parameters three and four now a compiler is gonna take a look at this and
say All right we have an animal that we're creating here and we're assigning it to object one and object
to but if I go ahead and add object one dot a to equal let's say 30 and then object Wanda be to equal
one hundred and I'll do the same thing for the object too except that this time around for object to
I'm going to create it in different order.
So that is I add the b property and then the a property to object to hopefully that's not too confusing.
That code is actually going to make the compiler run slower or de optimize the code and that is something
called Hidden classes.
You want to try and instantiate your object properties in the same order so that hidden classes which
is what the compiler uses underneath the hood to say oh this animal class this object one an object
two objects have the same hidden class that is they have the same properties but as soon as you start
introducing things in different orders it's going to get confused and say they don't have a shared hidden
class they're two separate things and internally that's actually going to slow things down so one thing
you want to do in a situation like this is to assign all properties of an object in its constructor
over here.
So that is to add the A and B property in here so that you avoid this issue or making sure that we add
things in the same order and that's why there is this issue of delete keyword as well.
If I delete the property here of the object Well again I change the hitting classes so that they don't
match up anymore.
Now when it comes to optimizing the compiler there's small little gotchas like that that you don't really
have to worry too much about it.
The key takeaway from here is that we should write code that is predictable not only for humans but
also for machines the more predictable your code is the better it will be because they'll have no surprises.
And throughout the course we're going to learn these practices that will help us write optimized code
that is predictable and that doesn't confuse the compiler.
I'm not going to mention every single time that we're doing an optimization for the compiler we're just
going to assume that these best practices when incorporated like I'm going to show you throughout the
course it's going to help us write fast efficient code I'll leave resources for you here if you want
to learn a little bit more about this topic and really get into understanding what this hit in classes
is it isn't something that you need to worry about too much.
But for now I'll see you in the next video by.